# [Why you're Not Reaching Your potential (Puer Aeternus pt.2)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGFqdVqDhqo)

## Intro

Alrighty, chat. Let's get started. Welcome to another Healthy Gamer GG stream. My name is Dr. Alok Kenojia. Just a reminder that although I am a medical doctor, nothing we discuss on stremm today is intended to be taken as medical advice. Everything is for educational or entertainment purposes only. If y'all have a medical concern or question, please go see a licensed professional. Okay? So, y'all will not be deceived and y'all will not be denied. So, I don't know what the title of today's stream is. Something like why you don't live up to your potential. And many of y'all have correctly deduced this is Puer Aeternus part two. And um y'all are y'all are right. Okay. So, a couple things before we hop into the lecture. First is uh y'all may notice that we have a chat again. After many years, we have returned to chat. So it's a chat across of all our platforms. So, welcome chat.

Next thing is um just a quick reminder that we build this thing called meditation tracks. So if y'all are struggling  with developing like a meditation practice, we built this. You have acess to it if you have memberships. You have acess to it if you've bought a guilde. Um it's you know it's to help y'all actually structure a meditation practice, beginner, intermediate and advanced paths that y'all can go down that will focus on impulse control and improving your focus and emotional processing is the advanced tracks and you know this is just stuff that we're building because people will be like Dr. K you teach all these different meditations how do i know which one to do and for how long? So we like build this thing that tells you breaks it down for your forms tracks etc. Okay, cool.

What are we going to do with you, chat? Okay, so about two weeks ago, i made the mistake of streaming. And I did this strem called Puer Aeternus part one. And let's just say it had a big impact on our community. So, for like the last two weeks, i just did a search for Puer on our subreddit. Grow up for what? Dr. K's video on Puer Aeternus hit me so hard that i feel like i've been slapped awake. My story with Puer boyfriend, Puer only wants one thing. Why some never tile? Why some man never grow up doesn't do the stream justice. Video is incredible. Giftedness in Puer. A misapplied archetype a respectful critique. A perspective from ex Puer and how to overcome it. Why i dont think Puer Aeternus part two will save you. I feel like it didn't go into address the keys issues. It would be great to get another video was life-changing. I cannot wait for part tow. Uh i feeld like i could be 100% more productive if someone else took overmy life decisions just ordered me around by a robot. It goes on and on and on.

So, we struck a chord with our community and a lot of the posts were like, "What do I do?" Because at one point and some of the posts are also like because we talked about this one passage where the puer, um let me see if i can find this. Okay.

So like this is the text that we were kind of learning into u which is a text by Marie Louise Von France called the problema of pueris and Jung spoke of one cure work. And having said that he hesitated for just a minute and thought is it really as simples as all that? Is that just the one cure? Can I put it that way? But the work is but work is the one disagreeable word wich no puer likes to hear. So, a lot of people came out of this and were like, "Okay, is Dr. K just telling us to just work? Will just work fix it?" No, it won't fix it. Okay, let's understand why.

Um, where is i'm looking for one paper. Oh yeah. So, here's a post for example. Pretty sure i'm a puerist, but doing hard work doesn't seem to have fixed me. Okay.

So, people are like, "Dr K., are you just telling us to work and just working doesn't work?" We'll get to that in more detail. So, this is hands down, and i've said this a couple of times, this is hands down the hardest lecture that i've ever given. Okay? So, it's going to be hard. It's going to be weird. It's not going to make a whole lot of sense. And if you listen to it, really listen to it, it could transform you, but if you listen to it in the wrong way, it won't touch you at all. Okay? So, like, so i want y'all to listen to my message, not my words. This is also i feel like the peak of what healthy gamer is made for and i think this video this lecture also is going to be the hallmark of the begginning of the death of the healthy gamer community. So this is like the beginning of the end. This is not a bad thing. And the reason i say that is because if y'all understand what i say today, you will no longer need this place, okay? Like this is going to be the start of like y'all don't need us anymore. And this is a good thing. So I've said this for years, right? that like the goal of healthy gamer is to no longer be here. And something about just doing this one lecture, right, resonated so deeply with the community. 

This is the problem to solve. We are a community of puer attorney. We're a community of people who have potential and don't live up to it. We're a community of people who are gifted but don't turn it into something. I myself was a problem of pueris and now i'm still a pueris but there is a fundamental change that can happen where suddenly all of the potential that we start to have constellates. Okay. So i'm going to do a little bit of background on what puer is but i'm not going to go into like too much detail. I mean we'll get there's going to be a short recap of the first lecture. Okay. So, and here's what i mean by this. So, the problem of puer is one of constellation. So, let me see if i can find this. (Dr. K searching a unkown thing on pc?). (some part of text supressed here while he search. The transcription restarts at 2:26:42)

I'll just have to explain it my old way. Okay, i can't find the right passage. So, what i mean by this is if we look at puer, what does puer look like? Okay, i'm going to restart for a second. Um, i'm going to pause for a second. Okay.

So the problem of puer is one of unrealized potential. The basic issue here is that puera turni first of all is an achetype and we're going to go into what that means. Okay, but the basic issue is that we have within us a voice that is creative and excited. Okay, that is the voice of the inner child. we get hyped about things. So puer is literally means puer means is the word for male child. There's also pua eternis female child and eternis means forever. So people who are struck with this childlike view of the world, they cannot work hard, they cannot commit to things, the key problem is that and this is sort of what i see is that like it's a problem of like not being able to give up potential. That is why they cannot live up to their potential. Right? So any decision that i make in life, any door that i walk through in life means that i'm closing other doors. If i get married to this person, that means that i cannot married to this person. If i choose to major in this in college, that means i can't major in that college. So many of us are like, we're paralyzed with being able to move forward because there's this idea of like what if it doesn't work? So, we're going to read a couple of good examples of.

Page one. find the right one. Okay. So, let's just characterize this a little bit. 
This is our quick recap. There is another typical form of this disturbance. In this case, the image of the mother, the image of the perfect woman who will give everything to a man and who is without any shortcomings is sought in every woman. So that each time he is fascinated by a woman, he has later to discover that she is an ordinary woman being. Once he has been intimate with her, the whole fascination vanishes and the turns away disappointed only to project the image a new onto one woman after another. In addition, there is an arrogant attitude toward other people due to both an inferiority complex and false feelings of superiority. Such people also usually have great difficulty in finding the right kind of job for whatever they find is never quite right or quite what they wanted. There is always a hair in the soup. The woman is also never quite the right woman. She is nice girlfriend but there is always a but which prevents marriage or any kind of definitive commitment. So puer is a life of hair in the soup. Something just doesn't work. It's like okay, but like uh i can't commit to it, right? i don't want to like lock in with this soup that has hair int it, wich results in what hg Baines has described as the provisional life. That is the strange attitude and feeling that one is not yet in real life. For the time being, one is doing this or that, but whether it is a woman or a job, it is not yet what is really wanted. There's always the fantasy that sometime in the future the real thing will come about.

Okay, so this is the problem of puer that like we're just sort of existing, right? So we we sort of live this life where we're like trying to keep your options open and we can't lock into one thing because what if it is the wrong thing? and its not what if it is the wrong thing. It's worse than that because it is the wrong thing. There is always a problem. There's never the perfect job. There's always a sense of settling, but we don't want to settle. We want that thing that we know is out there. If we can just find it, it i'll be perfect. So, we can't afford to settle. And so, we end up living that Baines call is a provisional life. So, provisional life is one where one is existing, but one is not like actually living life to the fullest. Okay.
The one dreaded one thing dreaded throughout by such a type of man is to be bound to anything whatsoever. There is a terrific fear of being the singular human being that one is. There is always the fear of being caught in a situation from which it may be impossible to slip out again. Okay.

They generally do not like sports which require patience and long training, for puer in the negative sense of the world word is usually very impatient by disposition so that such port sports do not appeal to them right and then there's this story of like this person who learned all of these like yogic exercises and was able trained himself to sleep outdoors just because the didn't want to carry a pack right so the puer will never or drain themselves to be ordinary. I would rather go through heroic growth and be exceptional in this way. But it's not true heroism. It is avoidance of the dreary. Avoidance of doing things like other people. Like im not one of the plebs. For fucks sake. I'm not always. I'm not one of the plebs. Okay.

They do not like conventional situations. They ask deep questions and go straight for truth. On the contrary, he live in a continual sleepy days. That too is a typical adolescent characteristic. The sleepy, undisciplined, long-legged youth who merely hangs around his mind wandering indiscriminately so that sometimes one feels inclined to pour a bucket of cold water over his head. The sleepy days is only an outer aspect, however, and if you can penetrate it, you will find a lively fantasy life is being cherished within. They have great great hopes and great great dreams. Okay.

And they also evoke a response of like wanting to throttle them like, "Oh, i'm gonna stop fucking sitting around and doing nothing. You have all these dreams in your head. Let me take a bucket of cold water and throw" it over your head." This response is not just triggered by external people. Is triggered by your own mind. So you will feel this response to why can't i just snap out of it? make a commitment and just get up and grind every day. This is the problem of puer. Now Jung spoke of work as the solution. But the kind of work that is dreary that is drab right the puer is very impatient. So like we can get excited about things but the moment that the excitement disappears it's like I CAN'T DO IT. So puer can work really hard. They are just not in control of their work. And this is what's so devastatin about it is because we all know, right? We have this like fantasy of like not fantasy, we have this reality of there was 72 hours where i woke up. i felt great. I was hyped. I was engaged. I wanted the flow state. I got the flow state. I produced something that was trully brilliant. And then day four rolled around, day five rolled around, and then i didn't feel like doing it. And instead of forcing themselves to continue doing it when they don't feel like, they search endlessly for the way to reignite that spark. I don't want to do the hard work. I want to find the perfect optimization, yogic technique, suplement thing, brain hacking, biohacking, spirituality, wellness, health, whatever, perfect environment, productivity solution, reading a 100 productivity books, summarized in a 10-minute youtube video. So, i don't actually really have to read the books. If i can, i wanna i bottled lightning for 72 hours. i don't want to generate electricity using a treadmill. I want to learn how to consistently bottle lightning. 

This is the problem of pair. So, today what we're going to do is go deeper. We're going to show y'all what problem of what first of all what puer is and what it isn't. Then we're going to go through a series of like constellate like things that patterns in the puers mind and then hopefully we will understand what it really is.
The problem is that you can do nothing about this. You can do nothing about this. No action will fix this. And the reason no action will fix this is because this does not exist at the level of action. THIS EXISTS AT A VERY DEEP PSYCHOLOGICAL LEVEL. So actions and this is kind of the problem. I want to show you all something. (Dr. K. searching a thing again, the transcription restarts at)

Y'all need to give me a minute, Okay. This is like kind of challenging for me. Okay, Let's go to page. Now, i found it. I want to show y'all. So, im going to show y'all. So, work won't solve the problem. Work will actually be part of the problem. Okay. So, like the cure is work, but doing work doesn't work. Even though it's the cure. That's the problem of puer. Pretty sure i'm a puer, but doing hard work doesn't to have fixed me. Let's see if we can understand why. Let's go back like 150 years to what this lady said and see if a reddit post from 11 days ago can be answered by a text that's like a hundred years old. The puer has to learn to carry on with work he does not like. Not only with work where he is carried away by great enthusiasm which is something that everybody can do. Primitive people who are said to be lazy can do that. For as soon as they are gripped by something they by something they work even to the point of exhaustion. I would not evaluate that as work but as being carried away by a festival of work. The work which is the cure por puer is where he has to kick himself out of bed on a dreary morning again and again and take up a boring job through sheer willpower. Okay.

So puer but people say but he's working hard. Yes but the reason he's working hard is he must have escaped to some other kind of work or he must have run away from some other kind of work. So this is the problem. Work is the answer. But work will never fix it. Because even when you do work, when you work really hard, you are not doing the hard work. You are running away from the hard work by doing easy work. Got it? So like y'all see that and you know this, right? you know that there's all you would move mountains to avoid climbing a mole hill. We will go through all i will develop my own theory of integrated physics that combines newtonian mechanics with quantum mechanics. I would rather do that than study for physics 101 and calculate friction of a pulley system. I will be great and i will be grand and i will be sacrificial. I will work incredibly hard but i never gonna do that. So when i say work is the answer it's not the answer. It is the an it is the answer and it's impossible to do. So now the question becomes okay how do we do it like what do we do? Okay so now we have to understand i didn't go into this because i didn't know this would be important but whatever. So we have to understand what an archetype is.

So Jung, okay, this is going to be hard. So Jung was a psychoanalyst and he came up with this idea, didn't really come up with it, popularized in the west this idea of something called a collective unconscious. So he's like, we have our regular conscious awareness. We have our subconscious and then there is this weird collective unconscious which connects us all. Okay. Like there is some fundamental thing which is deep and this thing is more primordial.It's not like so at the surface level of your conscious thoughts are very crystallized. They're formed. Even at the subconscious level, there are personality constructs, things like borderline personality disorder. You can like, it's like a crystallized thing. Do you all get that? There's like there's trauma and then if trauma coaleses in the right way, you will have BPD. If it coalesces in a different way, you will have narcissistic personality disorder. And then at the surface level of BPD, we will have even like more crystallized thoughts. this person is going to abandon me no matter what. Okay. So there's the super crystallized directly observable level of consciousness which is thoughts. The there is a less crystallized but still crystallized personality architecture which is not directy observable. So if you look at five factor model like you can't study you thoughts for 5 seconds 10 seconds 10 minutes and know what your five factor personality is. You can't do that. But if you do a deeper exploration you can get it out. Does that make sense? And then even deeper that which is less crystallized but more primordial are these archetypes. These are like general thigs that exist in the subconscious that we all share. So the puer archetype is like the child within us. The part of us that gets excited. Okay?

And when it gets excited, it like longs for things. But the child within us also doesn't like hard work. So when the puer attribute which is deep and we are all connected by it right and like if you guys want to know we are all connected by it looks like, it looks like this. This is what is looks like.

This is the archetype. Do you all get this? Like we are connected. We all feel it. We're like, "This is me. It's a lecture. It's not about you." Do y'all get that? This is a guy on the internet speaking. That's not you. That can't be you. It's words transmitted across fiber optic cables to pixels on a screen. This cannot technically be you, but it is. If you look at healthy gamer, what is healthy gamer? It's a it's a movement, right? This is why there's all this cult energy because we're not  connected just through words. We're connected like on a deeper level. 

Y'all get that? like i know you. People will walk up to me and they will say: "Dr. K. you have changed my life." How is that possible? I've never fuck met you. Think about it for a second, right? but there is like a connection which we feel. Where we are transformed. People will come to me and they'll be you changed my life. I've transformed you. Wow. that's pretty cool, right? this is the key thing about puer. You cannot do anything. You must be transformed. That's the only way it works. This psychology within you must shift. and if it shifts, all of these lack of followth through things will starts to constellate and you will start to live a life, a full life, a complete life. The reason i know that is because i was a puer that was not constellated. Now i am puer that is constellated. 

Okay? So like just let's be factual for a second. 2.5 GPA, graduated in five and half semesters, no money, shitty, rejected from medical school. I'm 26 years old. I got fucked. I haven't done anything. I have all these great ideas. Today: married, influencer, author, doctor, harvard, entrepeneur, what the fuck? Gamer, degenerate. Like, what the fuck. How is this change possible? The change is possible because the puer within me transformed into the healthy version and then suddenly all of my creative impulses started manifesting in the world. Right? So like i started fuck doing fuck when i got excited. And so I'll give you all like a literal example. I've been at VidCon in LA doing podcasts and stuff like that for the last week. I flew in on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, uh about 27 hours ago, i got an call with our contect director. Content director says, "hey dr. k. we're behind on videos. We need you to fill some shit. And i was like, "Content director bro i want to do a stream on Puerto Rico tomorrow." And he's like, "Well, we have to do all this other shit." And i was like, "i want to do it tomorrow." There's a lot of stuff that the world demands of me. I feel inspired to do something. And so what i did is grind the fuch yesterday, grind the fuck this morning, i'm gonna grind the fuck tomorrow, i gonna grind the fuck on sunday. I'm gonna grind the fuck on monday, tuesday, wednesday, thursday, and friday. I have a ton of work ahead of me. That is the price i have to pay in order to do what i want to have my dreams become a reality.

Do you all understand that? i'm not trying to like do this to flex. I'm just telling y'all that if you want to be a constellated puer, you have to pay a price. Now, people will ask me in these like interviews and fuck right? Dr. k., what's your secret to sucess? what do you think everyone should do? Uh, and what i tell the is like the one thing that really socked me about becoming sucessfull is how many good things i had to walk away from. 

So i worked really hard not to do this but wound up as faculty at Harvard Medical School. It is a coveted thing and i left to do this (streaming, yt career). I was well on my way grinding really hard to achieve some sort of spiritual progress. Walked away. My and if you guys go back and y'all have listened to my circle jerk answers y'all will have heard me say this that like life is a series of walking away from really good things. That is how you live fully. I didn't realize that this is what i was doing at the time, right? But it's if you want to live life fully, you need to reduce your potencial. Then like something weird happens where like the more doors you close the more you get everything behind them and it's like weird but that's like that's true okay like and i'm not saying this to like flex or honestly i'm just telling y'all this works and we know like there's the other reason we know it works is because when we dont do this because what happens is we don't want to close any doors. We don't want to close off any potential. And since we don't want to close any doors, and since we don't want to close off any potential, we end up like spinning in the waiting room of life. And then doors close on us anyway. And as doors start to close as opportunities start to close because we never took the plunge, right? so potential starts to close. And then we feel more panicked. And then it becomes really important to make the right decision because now like oh my god i lost this opportunity, lost this opportunity, lost this opportunity, lost i have three left. Which one do i pick? Which one do i pick? And so if you're an unconstellated puer, your life is a series of getting bumped around by ping pong ball or not ping pong balls, pinball machine.

You become a pinball ball in a pinball machine, and you're just getting smacked around like you're like if this thing happens, if this bumper like if i hit this button then like and you just have two buttons at the bottom of your pinball. That's all you know how to control. And it's like if i can if i can hit if everything lines up right, i can hit the button at the right time. This is the one thing i can do well. The i can like get some energy and i can control where i want to go. But there's this like thing in the middle that's like 10.000 points. And as try as you might to hit your two buttons because that's what you've got, right? You've got like porn and you've got video games. And you're like, it's so hard. And you know it's possible. If everything lines up right and you use your two buttons, the you can get to the 10000 points in the middle and you can win. But you don't want to work the hard way. You just keep on using these two buttons. 

Okay. So, what we're talking about is an archetype and an archetype that has to come out in a healthy way. And when the archetype comes out in a healthy way, you will be transformed. Then the actions will flow. Then you will be able to do it. So, let's talk a little bit about how to do that. Okay. Um. Allright. So, y'all with me so far. Okay.

So one of our students has evolved the idea that there is something like a defective self that in certain people whose fate is very unfortunate the symbol of the self appears defective which would mean that such people have no chance in life because the nucleous of their psyche is incomplete and defective. So the whole process of individuation cannot develop from this kernel. Y'all have seen this right? This is like i am screwed. There's nothing i can do. I'm fundamentally broken. Exists within our community. People have this attitude. I do not agree with this idea because i never seen such symbols of a defective self without an accompanying defective attitude of the ego. That means that wherever you find such a defective self symbol where it is ambiguous and incomplete and morbid, there is always at the same time an incomplete and morbid attitutde of the ego. And therefore, it cannot be scientifically asserted that the cause of the whole thing lies in a defective self. Okay. So, here's what that kind of means. Okay. 

So, i'm going to pause for a second, then i'm going to read more. All right. So, some people, so if we look at likek the problem of puer, people are like, okay, like i'm a puer. How do i fix that? You don't fix it. A lot of people believe that they're fundamentally broken in life. And there's nothing can be done to fix it because they've tried. But it's not that you are fundamentally broken. It is that the way that you relate the part of you that shepherds and controls all of these archetypal energies like puer that is the thing that is busted. There's nothing wrong with puer, puer is great. It is puer that is inappropriately managed that takes this beautiful force that then becomes destructive. Okay. So this is a great analogy. that this is where the lecture becomes like hard and it's only going to get harder. Okay?

So try to follow and if you don't follow, watch it again and i'll try my best. But on the other hand, it can just as well be said that if one eats all the wrong things or does not eat or eats irregularly, then it is not the stomach which is at fault. This is the defective self always goes with an ego which does not function properly either. If the ego is lazy, inflated, not conscientious, does not perform the duties of the ego complex. then it is clear that the self cannot appear positively either. Okay.

So what this kind of means is like this is talking to this core conflict of like okay is do i have a so if i eat all the wrong things and eat at irregular times and then i say my stomach is bad, right? My stomach is like a trash stomach. Is it the stomach that's at fault or is it the irregular eating and the irregular diet that's at fault? the same analogy can be applied to puer. So some of us believe we are fundamentally broken but are we fundamentally broken or are we not fundamentally broken but what we are the way we are channeling or acessing that energy that is flawed. Okay. So let's kind of drive that point home a little bit. So if the man were here today, he would certainly object and say, "No, it is the other way around. The ego cannot function because the self is defected. I'm fundamentally broken. I'm not making the wrong choices. It's not it's not that i'm choosing to eat the wrong things." Like my stomach is effed. Really, bro? Then we are confronted with the age-old philosophical problem of free will. Can i want the right thing? That is the problem which the puer will generally put to you. ==He will say that he knows that everything goes wrong because he is lazy==. But that he cannot want to be lazy. I don't choose laziness, right? Laziness is a feature of me. Everything in my life is going wrong because i'm lazy. But that's not something that i choose. It's the way that i am. And all of those other people out there aren't lazy. That's why they're sucessful. That perhaps that is neurosis that he is unable to fight his laziness and therefore it is useless to treat him as a rascal for whom e everything would go right if he were not so lazy. Okay, so this language is a little bit weird but it's like this core problem of like okay like other people are good but i'm fundamentally lazy that's why i can't do anything in life. And this is the core problem of puer. So when the ego structure so let's talk a little bit more technically now. So we have all these archetypes within us. There are like you can think about them as like impulses drives fundamental drives like the father, the mother, the caretaker, the protector, the trickster, the wise old person within us, the child. All of these are archetypes. And we have this thing called the ego which in the jungian sense and freudian sense pshychoanalytic sense also translates over to the eastern sense pretty well. 

If you can't if your mind is not able to harness and channel that creative drive it becomes a problem. Okay. So now next let's take a look at 
let's talk about for a second how to fix it okay so this thing is within us so but jung says that there is no sickness in the collective unsconscious and so as the self is an archetype. It does not seem toe me that there can be anything defective. So there's nothing wrong with puer. I think it that if it appears defective, it is because of the wrong ego attitude. Objectively in itself, it cannot be defective. Which is why i cannot accept the idea of the defective self. If the ego is able to change, something else changes. If the ego attitude changes, the the symbol of the self become more positive. That is something we can experience again and again. If the person can achieve a certain amount of insight, then the whole unconscious constellation changes. So this is what makes this hard.

Suceeding with puer is not about doing anything. It is about changing our relationship with our self. It is an internal change and it happens at a deep level at the archetypal at the level where the archetype meets the unconscious or maybe where the archetype meets the conscious. ==This is why you can't do it. This is my as we'll see the puer archetype if until you change this constellation it will keep hijacking what you do. all of your attemps for improvement will not work.==

There is a fundamental stuckness that if you transform it then suddenly all of this creative energy flows forward in a positive way. So now the question becomes how do we do that? So what i'm going to do now is go through a series of characterizations. So, the best strategy that i've got is to show y'all basically like how it works. So, i'm going to show you the way that the puer archetype functions in your mind. And if you'all want to conquer this thing, what you have to do is notice all of these drives because it's really tricky. Okay? So, like i don't know if this makes sense. ==Like i'm going to show y'all the moveset==. 

Imagine you're playing Street fighter VI or tekken or whatever. There's a character called Puer and you're fighting against this character. I'm going to show y'all the moveset that this character uses. It has this kind of throw, this kind of jump kick. It can counterattack in this way, but i can't fight it. You have to step into the ring. And if i show you what's coming, there's a chance that you will like be prepared, but then you have to hit buttons. There is no way to get out this without hitting the buttons. I can't do it for you and nothing that i teel you will work. It must be a struggle of your own ego complex with this destructive puer archetype. Okay. 

All right. So, we talked about this. Let me pull this up. Let me see if i can find this. 

==GESTURE OF IMPATIENCE==
All right. So the first thing that we're going to talk about is the gesture of impatience. Okay. So then something absolutely classic happens. Namely the gesture of impatience. That is typical for puer. When he has to take something seriously either in the inner of outer world, he makes a few poor attempts and then impatiently gives up. My experience that it does not matter if you analyze a man of this type whether you force him to take the outer or inner world seriously that is really unimportant though perhaps it depends on the type. The important thing is that he should stick something out. That is why such people tell you suddenly that they have another plan that is not what they were looking for. They always they and they always do it at the moment where things become difficult. It is the everlasting switching which is the dangerous thing not what they do. So here's the problem of puer. Y'all are looking for the right answer.

There is no right answer. Anyone who tells you this is the right answer, myself included, will not work. The problem is not the answer. It is the way that you relate to the idea that there is an answer. As long as you believe that, you're FUCKED. Because the what'll happen? It is the changing from one answer to the other. It doesn't matter which one you pick. Just don't change. That is the real answer. Right. So when i want to do this lecture of pueris, I don't get to can the other stuff that i have to do. 

I don't get to switch. I loop (or lop) things off. Stick with something. Make a sacrifice. That is what you need to do. And then if you're not carefull, the puer will be like, "==How do i know which sacrifice to make?==" It doesn't matter. What you need to learn is the ability to make a sacrifice. 

==THE DEFECT IDEA/STATE==
Another thing that we talked about, so second this that idea that you are defective, you're not defective. The way that you relate. So if you're fundamentally defective, there's nothing you can do. The way that you relate to your undeffective self is what makes you defective. You take your perfect self and you transmute it into something that is fundamentally broken. Because as long as it's fundamentally broken, then you've got and excuse. Then you don't have to do the hard work. The key thing about puer when it is in its destructive form is that it avoids hard work at all costs. So what you'll notice is there's this twisting and turning. Just don't want to work hard. I just don't want to do something bad. And this is the real tragedy of it is that you don't want to do something bad. You don't want to stick something out. And in avoiding all of that stuff, you end up with like a dead-end job or you end up with a career that pays your bills but isn't fulfilling. You don't ever take the plunge. You don't ever take a chance. ==You sort of like live in this limbo state where you're getting your needs met. When your distress becomes so high, you're moved to a temporary form of inaction==.

So, it's kind of like you're this volcano that's rumbling beneath the surface. And when some critical point happens, you'll erupt. You'll erupt even every day by slogging your ass to work, doing whatever dead-end fuck you need to do that is spiritually bereff. And then you come home and then you're like, I can't do anything and i'm tired and i'm exhausted. And you never like you never like quit. Right? You never like take the plunge.
You never leave your job and start your company. You don't leave your boyfriend or girlfriend because things are comfortable and then you have to find how are you going to pay rent? You can't afford rent. So, you might as well stay with this person even though the relationship feels dead inside. And for those of you who are not paying attention or whose puer is not paying attention is not right, whose puer is hyperactive will say, "Is Dr. K just saying i should fuck quit my job and break up with my girlfriend." He doesn't understand what my life is like. That's not what i'm saying. If you do anything that i tell you to do in today's lecture, it's not going to work. It's never going to work.

==Right? And notice what happens. I'm telling you to take the plunge. Ain't going to do it. The way that you're not going to do it is by criticizing me. This guy doesn't understand my life. Of fuck. Puer is trhilled.== On fuck that was a close one. There's this guy on the internet that seems really smart that i've been following for years. Oh man, i really thought he was great. But the moment he told me to take the plunge, fuck man, that was close. I almost listened to him and did the hard work.

People are saying i'm lost and people are saying caught me. Yes, that's what's hard about this. this lecture is going to leave half of y'all behind. And i'm sorry. This is the best that i can do. And because i didn't give into my internal pair, i said i'm going to do a shitty job at an important lecture instead of waiting to be able to do it right and perfectly. And it's going to leave half of y'all behind, which is fine. Sorry. And it's not because y'all are dumb. It's because i hope y'all can tell this is not my best, right? i'm piecing this together. I'm making mistakes in the lecture. This is like hard for me. Okay, y'all get that. Like, and it's fine. It's just like that's why y'all don't get it. It's not because you're dumb. It's because i don't know what the fuck i'm this is the first time i've tried to tie together so many things and it's going to get harder. Like, we're just getting started. Okay. 

So there is no defective self. 

==SACK OF ILLUSIONS==
Next thing now, next move. Now we're going to get into throws, okay. The greatest difficulty we drag along with us from our childhood is the sack of illusions which we carry on our backs into adult life. The subtle problem consists in giving up certain illusions with without becoming cynical. Just poor children who have grown up in the slums and had a terrible family and fate or very rich children who had all the same miseries except lack of money, divorced parents, a bad atmosphere at home and so on. That is where the feeling atmosphere has been neglected which is so important for children. Such people grow often grow up quicker than others because at a very early stage they become very realistic, disillusioned and self-contained and independent. Okay. If you analyze such people, you find that they have not worked out the problem of childish illusion illusions, but have just cut if off, having simply assured themselves that their lack, their desire for love, and their ideals simply hammer them like a sack of stones carried on their back. So, they must all be done away with. 

So, here's another key thing. You can be rich, you can be broke. Okay. Doesn't matter. So what a lot of people have is they have this sack of childish illusions. When we grow up, we have this idea of what the world is. Why are you unsatisfied with you life? Because you have an idea that there's something better out there. You seel all these influencers or you see all these people like tech bros or whatever the fuck doesn't matter. Like i i don't care like whatever it is, right? where did you get this is the problem. Where did you get the idea that life is better or could be better than what you were experiencing?

This is the childish sack of illusions that we carry with us as we go through life. We constantly think, oh, like i'm unlucky. This could be better. This person is doing better. This person is doing better. So this is what's so tricky about it is like we carry this idea that something could be better but it is this idea that something could be better which is base on a childlike fantastical impression which prevents us from seeing what the world really is. So you can get all of the things that your childlike illusion wants. The path to them just involves a lot of hard work and a lot of uncertainty. A lot of closing off of potential, a lot of sacrifice. You can get it all. It's just not in the way that you want and they hold on this idea.

And so in your mind what this will look like is like it's like you want to work on this job but so i i you know i i had a client once who felt really smart had a degree from a prestigious institution and wanted to join companies didn't didn't have a great work history at 33 the wanted to join companies at the ex-suit level he's like i'm badass i'm amazing i'm not going to work through some entry-level fuck i'm going to go straight to the top because that's where i deserve to be. Doesn't want to slog. And it's the fact that they didn't want to slog that ended them up with a prestigious degree from harvard business school 33 with a fucking working history.

Didn't want to slog. I want to jump straight to the top. Because you have this idea. you have this childish illusion that you can jump straight to the top. It's entitlment. That's a good word. Okay.

Now, here's the problem. So, if you analyze such people, you find that they have not worked out the problem. They have not worked out the problem of childish illusions, but have just cut it off, having assured themselves that their desire for love and their ideals simply hammer them like a sack of stones, carry it on their back. So, they all must be done away with. This we see in our community as well. So, there is a response to this. Okay. So step one is childish illusions. This is what i want to do. This is the way the world should be. I enter the world. The world doesn't look like that. So i give up. I'm impatient. all that kind of stuff. Maybe i think i'm fundamentally broken. Do you all see how like the path of puer is like climbing a mountain on a tight rope? Climbing to the top of a mountain, walking on a tight rope to the top of a mountain with a dozen different ways to fall off. So we've talked about two of the problems. Here's another one. So, one way that people respond, if you have all these childish illusions about the way the world should be, it should be good and i deserve this and i'm entitled to this and like all that kind of stuff, right? I'm not making a moral, don't get caught up. This is another thing. Don't get caught up in whether that's true or not true. Whatever the fuck i don't care. I'm just using those asam examples. This is what i'm talking about right now. If you want to ask me what i think the world should be like, that's a separate conversation.

So then what happens is you realize okay teh things that i want what i want is not possible. You realize that your illusions are false and then the pair does something really dangerous. They amputate them. They don't work through them. They're just like no i don't want his. I become anti-work. I become anti-capitalism even though i want money. I lop it off. I'm an incel. An amputation of a part of you that wants something. This is your inner child. This is the part of you that has joy and awe and inspiration and excitement when you look at the world. But it gets transmuted into this elucory form. The drive is real. The archetype is real. You know that there's truth to it. Like y'all know that. You know you can be great. But something along the way happens where this primordial subconscious as it filters sorry the primordial unsconscious as it filters through your personality structure as it filters through your cognitive structure turns out in weird way in a non-healthy way in a in a unsconstellated or unformed way and then things don't work. And what is easy to do when i've got like a really really good start and then i put it through whatever the strainer and i end up with something that is fuck ==The strongest and easiest defensive reaction is to just chop the whole thing down== to give up. Not work through it, not find a way to work to give up. Amputate your desire. And if y'all are poos, y'all have done this probably. You've taken something that you're really excited about. You've become cynical about it and you've said, "This is never possible. This is fuck This is not possible. And therefore, i don't want it anymore." You get rid of your want. And you lose a piece of yourself in the process.

People are asking, "what's the alternative?" I'll show you, but it ain't pretty." Actually, i'm gonna try to show you. I should say next pattern. Okay.

==in Fantasy but not in Reality==
Now we're going to talk about finishing moves. Y'all ready? "Finish him!". However, all that he praises, he does not stand by. For the assimilates the whole thing intellectually and takes it back to this imaginay world. It is a trick which many puer act from. the realization that they should adapt to reality is an intellectual idea to them which they fulfill in fantasy but not in reality. The idea is executed only in reflection and on a philosophical level but not on the level of action. It looks as though they have quite understood as if they have the right attitude as if they know what is importante and right but they don't do it. Y'all understand this whole thing, all of the answers that we're sharing with you will be colonized by the puer and you'll turn it into a philosophical thing, right? You'll spend time on the internet arguing about right and wrong instead of serving the homeless in a soup kitchen. You will spend time posting things on the internet looking for answers. "Grow up for what?" This is beautiful. For what? Right? So like this is staggering. I was glued, but why should i do it? It hits this. You'll get this. I'm not trying to like fuck on this person, by the way. We'll we'll get to community in a second. But this per like you you'll see the puer. the puer is like it it hit me, but why why should i do it? So this philosophical weird fuck thing is like if it's lands and if you know it's true, the puer rises up wihtin you. It's like, no i will not lose to this. I'm going to counter combo. I'm going to turn it into philosophy. I'm going to reflect. Why should i do this? give me a reason. Give me an existential reason. I'm not gonna fuck me. Don't tell me to fill out resumes. Give me an existential reason for why i should, even though it hits. So the puer complex will intellectually claim whatever claim whatever insight you do have as transformation starts to happen. It'll be like no. It does this really tricky reverse combo thing. And if y'all like pay attenttion to these posts, y'all will see these patterns. You'll see puer visible, right? Why not? So like oh like oh i was staggered. I was glued. Never in my 40 years have i felt so understood. Why not live in fantasy? Why bother being in a relationship if it's just meh? How is that better than staying alone? There it is. Holy fuck This is wild. 

Marie Louise Von France in like 1905 or whatever the fuck when this was written on page 43 of her text. I'm not reading you. She's reading you. She called it. And look at this. (dr k. talks about the reddit post "grow up for what?"). 138 upvotes. This ain't a small number of up votes for our our subreddit. I'm not trying to call this person out to say that they're bad. 

You guys get that. This is the pattern. Okay. Next thing. You guys wnat more or you guys want to move on to solutions?

==cannot cross this very simple border from fantasy to action==
Let's keep going. We've got a couple left. That i think is one of the trickiest problems in the specific neurotic constellation that the puer tends to grasp at everything wich would be the right thing to do and then to draw it back into his fantasy theory world. He cannot cross this very simple border from fantasy to action. So, he can and cannot cross the very simple border. Let me see. Okay. So then this okay i'm going to keep reading this. okay. He cannot cross the very simple border from fantasy to action. It is also the dangerous curve in the analysis of such people. For unless the analyst constantly watches this problem like an alert fox, the analysis will progress marvelously. The puer will understand everything. We'll integrate the shadow and the devil's watchdog behind it. It is all a sham. The whole integration takes place up in the sky and not on earth, not in reality. So that it comes down to having to play the governness and ask what time he gets up in the morning, how many hours have been worked in the day and so on. It is a very tedious job. But that is what it boils down to because otherwise the fantastic selfdeception occurs which can very easily catch the analyst. 

So this is like even as the analyst if you're in an analytical relationship with a puer. they will eat what you're serving with a big ass spoon. They'll be like, "Oh man, this is so great. I feel so seen. I feel so heard. I feel so rocked. I feel so whatever. I feel heard. Dr. K. is great. I made a breakthrough. Everything's awesome." Like, "Oh my god, this is amazing. I can't wait for part two." But i'm not doing anything. I'm never doing anything. I can't wait for part two. Part two is goint to be great. I'll do something after part two. So they can even do all of the work. But y'all y'all have been saying, i've been cathcing you from day not day one, but you know, i've been catching you a lot. And that's why because if i don't catch you, it'll slip past. ==Then you have to start catching yourself. Once you start catching yourself, the transformation has the space to happen==. Okay.

We got one more. Actually. Oh, all right. I'm going to show you all one more. Okay. So, we also have a very mature community, right? The puers very often has this mature, detached attitude toward life, which is normal for old people, but but which he acquires prematurely. The idea that life is not everything that the other side is valid too and that life is part of the whole existence. I have met many people with a similar difficulty constellation who do that. They live only on condition which means that they secretly that secretly they constantly flirt with the idea of suicide at every step of their lives. They think taht they will try something or other and that if it does not work they will kill themselves. The puer always keeps his revolver in his pocket and constantly plays with the idea of getting out of life if things get too hard. The disadvantage of this is that is never quite committed to the situation as a whole human being. There is a constant jesuitical mental reservation. I will go into this but if i i but i reserve my right as a human being to kill myself if i can't stand it anymore. I shall go through the whole experience to the bitter end. If it becomes too unsufferable for if it does i shall walk out of it and therefore the person does not become whole. If one cuts off the wholeness of the experience one cuts oneself into bits and remains split because of transformation. Oh because transformation can only take place if one gives oneself completely to the situation.

So this is what i've seen like so i've worked with a lot of gifted kids, worked with a lot of degenerate gamers, worked with all these like kind of people like all these poos and suicide is the ultimate escape hatch. If things get too hard, i can always peace out. So i had a patient once who kept a noose in their basement and the thing was they didn't want to die. They wanted to live. But the noose was a source of comfort. It was a source of safety that if if i do want to if this gets too hard for me, i've got an out. It is the suicide is the ultimate and not just suicide itself, the capacity for suicide. You are telling the world, i have one final trump card that will allow me to escape any commitment. The world can demand whatever commitments it wants of me. I don't have to fully commit to them. So we see suicidality, not necessarily suicide, but the and this is like kind of how we know like if suicide for you is like the ultimate relief, right? It's not like escaping the pain right now, which is often times what it is when it's acute. And if y'all are feeling that, in both cases, you should see a mental health professional. In the case of acute suicide alley, you all should really seek emergency services. I I mean that but suicidality for the puer looks a little bit different. It's like your parachute if things get too hard. It's your ultimate escape. And this is the whole problem of puer is that if you leave yourself and escape hatch, if you are never willing to commit, if you never take the plunge, then you will never live life. You'll live as Bane said, a provisional life, a halflife. Y'all get me? 

Okay, now comes the hard part.

These are the patterns of puer. So, what do we do about it? 

All right. So, we did that one. Now comes the hard part. Hold on.

I should get some water, too. Okay. (Dr. K. opens an reddit post "Anyone else pissed at Dr. K.'s socioeconomic views?)

This post was sparked by the most recent Youtube video, Why you feel So Drained. Yet, my resentment towards the issues has been building up for a while now. To start off, i'm a four plus year HG fan and i love Dr. K's work. while my tone way be shar, nothing in this post is intended to be intended as a personal attack or a devalutation of HG's massive contribuition to the mental heath space. In HG's most recent video, Dr. K. roasts a 20-some girl on TikTok for not being able to hack it on a 24K salary and 1660 montly rent. The premise is that the younger generations were spoiled by the boomer economy and that life was not meant to be easey and effortless as we were lead to believe. The solution is basically to have your blood work done to out sematic issues. Use your cell phone less and then do a little bit more work every day whether you feel like it or not. Kaizen baby, let's go. Dr. K. then pads this tough love with some anecdote of his Indian grandmother running out of flour, bla bla bla How dare he compain about 40 hour work weeks and having to do chores on the weekend in Europe and America. What Dr. K. fails to disclose is the fact that the himself grew up in enormous socio-economic privilege and never had to personally face any real hardship regarding money and survival. As such, his touch love comes across as acrimonious and uncompassionate.
(Dr. K. ends the lecture about the post description)

Okay, so this person goes on to say, you know, all the privilege that i had. Okay, could she be more optimized? For sure. some of us aren't running from laziness. We're running on fumes. And before you preach hard work and hustle from a tower of generation wealth, try asking what it feels like to build a life with no net, no map, and no rest.
Dr's K. advice comes across as tonedeaf. And look at this. 368 upvotes, this is huge.

A lot of people resonate with this. Okay. So, i want y'all to pay attention to what's happening here. Okay, i'm not saying this person is right or wrong. Now, what we're going to do is read this. Through the transference, they begin to hope that perhaps they might trust of love. Againg, i got to pause for a second. We got to talk about transference.

So, in psychotherapy, there's this concept of transference. And what happens when you're siting with your therapist is that your therapist is supposed to stay neutral. And the reason that they stay neutral is if they stay neutral, the way that you what starts to come out, they kind of create a vacuum, right? So normally when two human being interact with each other, you're responding to my signals and i'm responding to your signals. You're an idiot. No, you're an idiot. You're stupider. No, you're stupider. Now, if one person is neutral, what comes out of the other person? Right? So, if i if i'm like hitting the tennis ball across the net, you're hitting it back and you're responding to what i'm giving and it go the responses go back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. So these analysts, Freudian, Yungian, whatever, discover there's this really cool thing that happens, which is that happens, which is that if you're neutral, the person starts projecting onto you. So if you give them nothing, something from them will come out and will be placed upon you. Right? So if there's like neutrality, it's kind of like nature abhores a vacuum. If you just if you as a human being sit with another human being and you are a vacuum, you'll pull stuff out of them. So this is what happens with transference. This is why we use it and that's where the real money is. The stuff that really bothers people like the deep stuff in there can only come out when you are a vacuum. 

So let's read a little bit about puer though the trans through the transference. They begin to hope that they might trust of love again. But you can be sure that the love which first comes up is completely childish. And the analysis very often knows what will happen and that it will just mean disappointment again and be of no use. Okay. Preaching does no more good than it would to a small furious child who just does not listen. How can one meet this tremendous problem? If one shelves it as something hampering in life as a source of illusion and trouble, then one is no longer spontaneous but disillusioned and grown up in a wrong way. But if one lives it as jsut impossible and reality hits one over the head, that is the problem. People of shel okay bla bla bla. Okay, this is not okay. 

That doesn't say what i want it to say this is hard to explain. Okay. So basically what the problem of puer is is when you're working with a puer they will eventually evoke a transference towards you and that transference is where the healing happens in an analysis. 

So they start to project onto you and it is in that projection that the healing happens. But when that projection happens, there is a huge step. So here's the step. 

First, step number one is I'm hopeless because i've tried and nothing works. 

Step number two is the analyst shows up and the analyst is great and the analyst has all of the answers. 

Step number three is the is a disillusionment in the analyst. This guy can't help me after all. This guy is false. This guy doesn't get it. This guy kind of does this sort of stuff. This is the steps of the transference.

This is why this is important. No hope. Hope in someone else. Disillusionment with self. The fourth step. Can y'all guess what the fourth step is?

This perfect person cannot help me. What is the next step, y'all? Why does this have to happen? What does this pave the way for?

Very good. Self-help. So, y'all may sa, "Oh may god, Dr. K. is such a fuck. He's calling this person out." Right? And it's got 368 upvotes. Let's read the top response. Did we wathc different videos? I just watched las night and he spent half the time harping on how unfair the situation is and emphasizing that no solution is good but framing his advice as the lesser of two evils. At no point does the roast ther or suggest that what is happening is how things should be. It's also important to undertand he isn't giving her advice specifically because he doesn't know her full situation. He's using her question to give more generally applicable advice. I honestly thought it was a bit overdone and that obsviously the audience would understand he's giving you something you can control, but reading this post i understand why he did it.

This is why i call this transference. Not because i'm right and they're wrong. I don't even remember what the video is about to be honest. Do y'all see what is happening here? 

So for a puer to come out of it, they must move through these phases. You're hopeless. You get your faith in me. I give you solutions. You reject them. You reject them for a thousand different reasons. They get co-opted by your intellectual strutucre. You philosophically reject them. You decide that you're going to do it with vim and vigor for all of 72 hours and you give up due to impatience. Or you say this guy doesn't get it. And this is why it is hard. This is why psychotherapy has evolved in the way that it has.

because therapists can't give advice. It's never going to work. I could give y'all advice until i'm blue in the face. Whatever advice i give, i can guarantee you that someone will post and say, "This doesn't work for this reason." and then someone and i'll say okay then do this and they'll say this doesn't work for this reason i can't give advice it doesn't work what must happen is transference.

and this is whats gets really weird. I think transference is starting to happen parasoccially so this is where things go completely off the rails i'm going to just share what i think is going on so the first is there is a collective unsconscious which is puerist i feel it, you feel it, we have some connection.

I think the way that transference transforms someone is via some weird collective unsconscious kind of fuck thing. I don't know like this is really weird. 

What is the mechanism of transformation when two human beings connect?

So as i make this content on the internet, there are two ways to receive it. Mindhive is right. Right. So like i know it sounds crazy. This is Mindhive (dr. k. shows up all the list hggg posts on reddit). Like it goes on and on and on 12 days like a 100 posts or some fuck not 100 like maybe, 40 50. We are connected. across this weird collective unconscious bridge and something is going on where if y'all want to lose faith in me that is good. You must lose faith in me. And when you lose faith in me, the only thing i implore you is that you find it in yourself. You look at all of these patterns that we've talked about and you sit with yourself. If you struggle with yourself, it is not about doing anything. It is about looking at the way that your mental construct is.

Recognizing that you have greatness within you, which needs to be birthed, but grappling with the terrible feat that in order to birth that greatness, you have to risk that it will die 100%. You have to go into battle and kill or be killed. The proble is that y'all are sitting on the sidelines. Y'all are never comitting 100%. And so your dream can never become a reality. And if you are never giving it your 100%, you will continue to live a provisional life. I can get you this far, but i cannot transform you. The advice that i give will not work. It will never work. This is the limit of what i can do. 

The rest you have to do on your own. And there is no way that i can find some perfect solution that will give you the benefit without the risk. You guys can try to optimize, philosophize, efficiency, whatever the fuck like whatever the fuck y'all want to do, but until you learn to pay the price, nothing will work. And this is happening within your community. The amount of people who have lost faith in me in the last year is astronomical. Astrology video, socioeconomic views, and like this is the crazy thing. This is not what i said. This is what i said. Right. And i'm not blaming that person. This is important to understand. Like don't get your ego caught up in this because mine isn't. I don't feel bad or good or whatever. I don't feel like i won or lost or whatever. I take this feedback seriously by the way and i do like change it, make changes and incorporate it and things like that. I try to adjust my tone. Not on this lecture. Subsequent fuck that gets uploaded to youtube, sure, i'll be more sensitive. 

So we're like growing here. We're going through these phases of disillusionment with dr. k., which is a good thing. I've tried really hard for y'all to not put me on a pedestal, but i'm getting pulled along with the transfers just like y'all are. And i say i'm an ordinay person, i really do believe that. I think the only difference, if even there is one, is just where i am on my journey. i've managed my puer in a way that like it just shows up sometimes now but it's not like i don't have my struggles or anything like that. So this trans this is not something you can do. It is a transformation that must happen on the psychological level.

The war that you need to fight is not in action. It is not just do it. It is like when there is an impulse within you to not wnat to do it to do it. And you have to be careful because if you amputate off your desires, you're going to end up cynical, which happens a lot too with prayers. They end up with like this cynical view. 1 35 15

And this person who was like, um, let me find this. Okay, i can't find it now. Right. So, i'm going to just share this. I feel like i could be 100 times more productive if someone else just took over my life decisions and just ordered me around like a robot.
Right? That's what a puer wants. It's the problem of poo in a nutshell. I just can't get myself to do anything. Well, like how do you get yourself to do something? You fight internally. You recognize what these move are, right? That's totally what you want. No, it isn't. People say that's what it want. I wish, wish people would order me around. when you get order round at your job, how do you feel about it? Not great. When I order you around, how do you feel about it? Not great. 

That's the problem. The puer lives in the paradox of i want this thing and when i get it, right? 

So people are talking about executive dysfunction. Someone made a post about adhd and puer. So this is important to understand. Archetype is at the subconscious level. Above that is personality. Above that is thoughts. Genetics and ADHD. They're like kind of above that. Archetype is way more primordial. Right? So if we look at like the layer of who you are, you're an individual, you're part of a family, you're part of a guild, you're whatever.

There are at different like levels of zooming in or zooming out of your identity.

So is there a correlation between ADHD and puer? Probably. I would say undoubtedly in my opninion. But they're not like one and the same They're like different they're like different kinds of stuff. right? If i say like there's a jersey and there's a team. Are the two things connected?

Yes. But they're not they're like at different levels of stuff, right? And there were other people who were criticizing my archetypal stuff. And fair enough, like that stuff is fair. I didn't go into the archetype stuff because. Now i am because now you all need to understand what this is. So puer doesn't cause ADHD. So this is the kay thing. 

So now we're going to open things up for questions. Okay. But the key thing here is if y'all are at the endo of this lecture and you're saying what do i do? it's the wrong question.

==The short answer is nothing. And and equally valid answer is everything.==

To conquer puer, to purify puer is what i would call it, you must understand things at the psychological level. See that tension, see that struggle, and move against it. Notice the thousand ways that it moves you towards  inaction.

It'll find a thousand tricks and if you meet those, it'll find a thousand more. The beautiful thing is that if you start acting in contrary to it, it will purify on its own.

Take the plunge. Things may not be okay. But what choice do you have? The choice you have is to sit around and idle for the rest of your life. 

Right? So this is where someone's saying, "So do the opposite." No, that won't work either. Nothing you do will work because if you say, "Okay, i'm just supposed to do the opposite." 

Practically, that can work. But if you're not careful, puer will hijack that as well. So it'll it's so tricky. It'll select things that where the opposite this goes back to this thing. Y'all remember when i pointed out that they'll do work, but they'll do a work to escape work. That's what's so tricky about it. So, you have to struggle internally. Fight it on the level of psychology. Recognize that you have this voice within you that is trying to come out and it's it's scared. It has this childlike perceptoin of what the world is.

So, what i would do is take and attitude of let me figure this out. Let me try and really give it my full forth effort because if i run an experiment and i cut it off halfway, i don't actually have any good data. Huge problem with puer. They think they have data, but what they have is a series of aborted experiments.

Okay. So, what we're going to do is post the slido link so you all can post your questions here. We'll we'll give this a second to populate. I don't know how to can okay, thank you so much your pand for posting slido.

I'm going to log into that. Let me just see what else we've got so you guys can post questions. Um just while we're doing questions two other things guys. 

First is um Dr. Honda is doing a healing from narcissistic parents workshop. So Dr. Honda is has been an awsome guest uh who has dained us with his presence here on the channel. Um has done a lot of great stuff. So he specializes in personality disorders, attachment styles, relationships. 

Uh he's done a couple things with us. We really love it. 

And sometimes we'll put together workshops for things that our community really cares about. So a lot of people will like ask questions about, you know, if i have screwed up parents like how do i fix that right?

So we talk about secure attachment and insecure attachment but if you have like insecure attachment like how do you fix it? So that's what um Dr. Honda is sort of an expert in. I've done an addiction workshop, a trauma workshop. Dr. Thorderson did a workshop on ADHD and skills building which went awesome. And so um here is uh we'll just show you all real quick. So he's doing a workshop. Um, so it's 150 bucks per seat. It is a 4 hours workshop on july 27th. So check it out if you all want. We generally speaking like i i think it's you know, it's pricey. 

We understand that. But it's a really great experience. The first workshop we did, i think 98 or 95 to 99% of people said, "i'm willing to sign up for the next one. I don't even care what it is." So it's a different kind of experience. And when you're in a workshop that's taught live with a different with a human being, like the level of the level of depth that things sink into is different. So, when you're just watching youtube, the attitude is different, right? Because your second screening, you pause it, you walk away, whatever. So, if y'all are interested definitely check it out. Dr. Honda is an expert in this stuff. part the other reason that we do this kind of stuff because y'all have been asking for content like this but or even workshops are like how do i do this not everything can be turned into a youtube video right so sometimes if it's like gritty and you got to get into it like a workshop works better

and then he's also just an expert in and this is not something that i don't know how to heal from narcissistic parens he does okay the other thing is that uh there's a there's a command in that called exclamation point voicemail so we are collect voicemails. 

So, if you all have voicemails that you want me to respond to please use the command and submit them.

no more tha 90 seconds. Make the questions clear. detailed, and specific. Don't tox yourself, though. And start sending in your voicemails and we'll start doing streams where we answer your questions. Okay? So, we're going to have a like we did this once. It went really well. I think people enjoyed it. It get it allows us to get through a lot of topics as opposed to a two-hour interview, which by the way, we may be doing an interview sometime next week. Stay tuned. We're not sure yet. Okay. So, we're trying to give y'all like I don't know if this kind of makes sense, but we're trying to give y'all like all the different slices of stuff. So there's like interview, there's voicemails, there's live stream part one, live stream part two, there's workshop, and depending on like what your where you are, we're we try to give people stuff to kind of meet them where they're at. So for those of y'all that want a more in-depth um you know, actionable kind of experience, that's what the workshop is. Those kinds of things just don't perform well on youtube. And by the way, i this is the other thing that a lot of people don't realize. When we put something that doesn't perform well on youtube, we lose money. So that's why we sort of do some of this stuff the way that we do it. 

The other thing is that if y'all want to work on puer, there's a lot of stuff over on the membership side that is like foundational and unfortunately that stuff doesn't do well on youtube. So like the things where we explain some basic foundational stuff but doesn't have like a it's not like a targeted problem with a targeted solution.

Those foundational like how do i understand what my mind is there's some great lectures on vasaa and gla when we get chances to we'll take the ones that we think based on community feedback would perform well in the public space and we'll shift them over. So, we've moved a couple of we've made a couple of membership lectures free on the youtube channel.

But yeah, we lose money. That's why it's hard. 

Which is okay from time to time. Not a big deal. All right. ==let's take a look at questions==. 

What the absolute first step?

The absolute first step is wathing this video again. So like the reason this lecture is hard and when i say like this stuff like this is the begginning of the end for the people who get it. We're going to move on to ==step four==, which is you don't need me anymore. Once this transformation happens you don'n need me. That's the point. That's why we showed up, right? Then i'm goind to go on to doing things that i enjoy in life. So the absolute first step is to try to listen to my message, not my words. And for those of you who don't know how to do that, which i imagine is a lot of people, that's exactly the problem, right? so you have to learn how to listen instead of do. Don't do, listen. And if you're not hearing it, that's okay. There's a fundamental quality of listening. And we get so externally oriented, like literally our orientation, the way that we're facing is outside of ourselves. That we forget how to listen. So, so if i tell you to do something, you can do it, but then puer will hijack you. It'll hijack you if you're in the doing phase. What you need to be doing is looking at the puer. Don't let it hijack you. But don't let it is not something you can do. It is not an action you can take. It is like a direction that you're facing. So what i literally do is whatch this again and listen. And this is what's hard is i have to convey a message at the level that will resonate with the collective unsconscious. I'm not talking I'm there's words up here, but then there's like a message that i'm transmitting via the collective unconscious. And i know that sounds fuckin weird. It's happening though. So that's what y'all need to listen for. The other thing that y'all can do, right? So for those of y'all that are not going to watch it again and you want a fuck answer, here's a fuckin answer. ==Pay attenttion to the patterns==, right? We laid out the patterns of the puer because it's not the first step. The first step is watching yourself. 

How to recognize when there's a sacrifice to be made and to commit to it? 
Easy when you don't want to. Like there's always a sacrifice to be made. So what you need to be pay attention to is not making the sacrifice. This is hard. Making the sacrifice isn't hard. I mean, that's not where the money is. The money is in noticing that you don't want to make the sacrifice. It is about seeing that there's a part or you that has this childlike idea right? So what is a child? why is it puer? Why is it a child? Because i want my birthday cake. I don't want to have to work for it. So you have all of these illusions. 





































